.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii hpc-clust.1
.\"
.TH HPC-CLUST 1 "JUN 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
hpc-clust \- high performance sequence clustering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hpc-clust [-t <threshold>] [-nthreads <count>] [-dfunc <dist_function>] [-ofile <output>] <-sl true|-cl true|-al true>
.I aligned_seqs
.P
.B hpc-clust-mpi [-t <threshold>] [-dfunc <dist_function>] [-nthreads <count>] [-ofile <output>] <-sl true|-cl true|-al true>
.I aligned_seqs
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hpc-clust
Performs a hierarchical clustering of the sequences specified in 
.I aligned_seqs
up to the threshold specified with the 
.B -t
option. The program proceeds in two phases. First, it computes all the distances between sequences and stores the ones below
the specified threshold. Second, it clusters the sequences with one or more of the single, complete or average-linkage methods.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -t
Distance threshold until which to cluster the sequences.
.IP -nthreads
Number of threads to run per node (
.B hpc-clust-mpi
) or for the single process (
.B hpc-clust
).
.IP -ofile
Output filename. ".sl", ".cl", or ".al" will be appended to the file depending on the clustering linkage method.
By default, it is the name of the input file.
.IP -sl
Perform single-linkage clustering, will create a file with the name specified by
.B -ofile
and ".sl", or with the same name
as the input file if
.B -ofile
was not given.
.IP -cl
Perform complete-linkage clustering, will create a file with the name specified by
.B -ofile
and ".cl", or with the same name
as the input file if
.B -ofile
was not given.
.IP -al
Perform average-linkage clustering, will create a file with the name specified by
.B -ofile
and ".al", or with the same name
as the input file if
.B -ofile
was not given.
.SH AUTHORS
Joao F. Matias Rodrigues <jfmrod@konceptfx.com>
.P
Christian von Mering <mering@imls.uzh.ch>
.SH "ACKNOWLEDGMENTS"
.P
Sebastian Schmidt
